This project contains popular games, made accessible to blind people.
Written by Karl Dahlke.

These games are stand-alone html + javascript files, and can be run by any
browser, but most notably, by edbrowse.
They are also compatible with many screen readers atop a commercial browser.

some of these games employ cookies, to keep score over an extended period
of time. In other words, you can come back to the game a month later,
play another round, and track your ongoing performance.
However, cookies only work if the game is accessed through a url, on a website.
If you play the game locally, it runs properly,
but it cannot track your performance over time.
You can set up a web server on your computer, using apache or lighttpd
or other public domain software, then run the game through a local domain.
this allows for cookies, and provides a form of long term memory.
Or you may be able to run these games off of my website http://eklhad.net.

--------------------

Wordle saw a surge in popularity during and after the pandemic.
This has subsided somewhat, but it is still a fun game to play.
The source file is wordle.html.
Javascript controls the flow of the game, thus javascript must be enabled.
The 5 letter words are in the wordlist [] array,
and the 6 letter words are in the word6list [] array.
Thus you can play wordle using 5 or 6 letter words.
A toggle lets you choose between the two.

Cookies will remember how many you got right and your ongoing score.
I also remember the words you have seen, so they are not presented again.
If I did not do this, you are likely to see your first duplicate in sqrt(n)
trials, which is about 75 games.
However, with memory in place, you will see almost all the words,
thousands of them, before they repeat.
Remember that the score, and memory, only work if wordle is played from a web server.
If played locally, each game is unrelated to the games that came before.
No tracking takes place, and it is possible, though very unlikely,
to see the same word twice in succession.

You can change the mode of the game at the bottom, 5 letter words or 6 letter words.
You can also enable or disable strict mode.
In strict mode, each guess must be compatible with the guesses that came before.
If you guess apple, and I confirm, with an equals sign in the first position,
that a is indeed the first letter, then every guess after that must begin with a.
Some people prefer this mode, but some people like to guess an unrelated word,
to get information on more letters.

enter your guess and click the <Go> button.
Use the information about letters in position, and letters present but out
of position, to make another guess, and so on.
Instructions for the game are on the main page.

--------------------

There are many forms of solitaire on the internet,
most of them very visual.
I have taken the time to implement my favorite, calculation, in a text format.
This is a standard version of solitaire, but not well known.
It entails more skill and strategy than most games.
If you would like to play this game, please read the rules and strategies first,
in calcrules.html.
Then the game itself is in calculation.html.
Click on <instructions> to jump to the instructions on the main page.
When you are ready, click on <Start Game>.
The first card is presented, thence you can click on one of the possible moves.
I will then pull another card off the deck, and you can select
your next move, and so on.

You can review a stack at any time by <Show Stack 1> etc.
The stacks and the play piles are presented using the standard emojis for the playing cards.
Your screen reader or adapter should be able to read these emojis
in a form that you prefer.
There is always a way to customize the pronunciations of emojis.

Cookies will remember the number of games you played, the total number of
points accrued, and the average.
Cookies also remember your preferences: ace 2 3 4 or random, completion mode,
and the number of stacks.
Run the game from a web server to take advantage of these features.

--------------------

The Rubix cube has been popular since the 1970's, and remains so today.
There are cube solvers on the internet, but they are very visual.
Watch faces turn on the screen, and turn yours the same way.
However, these are inaccessible to us.
cube3.html implements a text-based cube solver.
This assumes you have a brailled Rubix cube at home.
Affix braille stickers while the cube is in a solved state.
Choose any letters you like, perhaps letters that correspond to the colors.
Scramble the cube, then type the letters into the form,
9 letters at a time, one entry for each face.
It doesn't matter what the letters are; the program figures it out.
It generates a sequence of moves that gets you back to start.
Capital T indicates a clockwise turn of the top face,
and small t indicates a counterclockwise turn of the top face.
Is a 180 degree rotation one move or two?
That is a matter of taste, and you can configure the solution either way.
If a 180 degree rotation of the front face is one move, it appears as FF,
i.e. as one token.
If it is two moves, it appears as F F, two successive turns of the front face.
In either case, you should be able to apply these moves and solve the cube.
A typical path is 60 moves, which is not optimal, but is not too bad.

cube2.html implements the pocket cube, 2 by 2 by 2.
This is a simpler puzzle.
Each face is only 4 squares, indicated by typing 4 letters into the form.
The solution is optimal, the shortest path back to start.
The longest such path is 14 moves, or 11 moves
if 180 degree rotations are considered single moves.

There are many other Rubix puzzles on the market,
but I don't have solvers for them at this time.
We could probably build an optimal solver for the Rubix Pyramid,
using cube2.html as a model.

I got my first Rubix cube in 1978, and oh I couldn't put it down, not til I solved it.
Took a couple of days but I got there.
But first, I had to label it.
I had a braille dimo writer so it was no trouble to make labels and stick them on.
However, as I solved it again and again, with improved procedures, and as my friends played with it, the stickers wore off.
Sometimes they even pulled the color paper off as well, so parts of the cube were just black plastic.
The only recourse was to buy another cube.
Now advance 45 years.
What do I find at a garage sale but a Rubix cube with no colors.
The plastic has a silver finish all the way around.
The distinguishing factors are the sizes of the pieces.
Some pieces are longer, wider, taller, than others.
If you turn a face 90 degrees from start, it looks off kilter.
It only makes a cube when solved, otherwise it looks like a jumble of plastic rectangles stuck together.
The sighted person has almost no advantage here.
And there's nothing to wear off, so I can play with it for years to come.
This is the coolest Rubix variation I've come across in a while.
It's fun, but if you want cube2.html or cube3.html to solve it,
you have to affix braille stickers and enter the letters into the form,
as though it were a standard cube.

There is alsoa a tactile slanted cube, the "Moyu Fisher Windmill Mirror Cube",
where the planes of motion are not parallel to the faces of the cube.
This is a challenge, even for the experience cube solver.

Read more about solving the cube at
http://www.eklhad.net/rubik/

